how to outsource your marketing to the
right ad agency look i've been in the ad
agency game for ages my first company
that i started my first real company was
an ad agency called acs eventually in
the 08 crash it didn't do so well but
over time i created another ad agency
that i currently own np digital and i've
also hired tons of ad agencies because
i've been a serial entrepreneur and i
started my first company when i was 16.
i picked some good ones i picked some
bad ones the first few that i picked i
lost all my money and i ended up working
at a theme park continually picking up
trash and trying to make money to
hire more people but eventually couldn't
save up enough so i learned it on my own
and as they build a few other businesses
some were venture backed like
kissmetrics which didn't work out but we
would alter some of our marketing to ad
agencies as well
and i've learned what works and what
doesn't work now here's the thing it
doesn't matter how good of a reputation
someone has let's say if everyone's like
neil you're amazing marketer i'm making
that up people could say suck i think
i'm decent but you know you can tell me
that
and that's up to you but what i've
learned is even though i have a
following for marketing online
and people look up to me as a digital
marketer
just because you hire my company
doesn't mean that you get the results
what you're looking for now my company
produces great results we actually have
make probably more of our revenue from
upsells and retention than we do from
getting new accounts that's how
satisfied clients are but what i've
learned over the years is it's not about
the person you hire like even gary
vaynerchuk has added it's not about
hiring gary vaynerchuk or neil patel
it's about
who is working on your account
see if you hire a company even ones that
work with fortune 100 companies and they
put junior people on your account that
have never done marketing before it
doesn't matter if you hire me or someone
else
you need to look at the people who are
actually working on your account and
doing the work what are their
qualifications how good are they at
marketing so that's step one step one is
make sure you're not you're not just
hiring an ad agency you're hiring
specific people within that ad agency
who are working on your account so make
sure you have really good people on your
account and make sure their credentials
aren't just great and their track record
is not just great but they also have
experience within your industry which
means they'll be able to produce results
quicker
two
you need to make sure that that company
has industry experience so when they're
pitching you let's say if you're a
fintech company they need to show you
other examples of fintech companies that
they produce results for and they need
to provide references for this because
when they do that there's a higher
chance that they'll be able to provide
results for you as well the last thing
you want to do is work with a company
that can't produce results and has no
experience in your space because not
every space is equal some spaces have
regulations for example if you're in the
[Music]
cannabis industry there's regulations
when it comes to marketing or if you're
in the crypto industry there's
regulations when it comes to marketing
you don't want to hire someone who's a
good marketer who has no experience in
that space because they're going to have
to learn it which means you're paying
for someone to learn something which
means it's not as efficient and it's
going to take you longer to get results
the third thing that you need to do is
before you even work with that company
they need to analyze your business and
tell you everything that's wrong they
need to tell you everything that's wrong
in such a detailed overview you're going
to be like huh why'd they tell me all
this i can just go do it on my own and
even though they break it down the key
strategy here is is if they're that good
at breaking everything down why would
you waste the time trying to do it on
your own when they give you the road map
when you can just be like all right you
already did the analysis this makes
sense go and execute on it because you
know it's the right team and if they're
not willing to break it all down for you
and break down how they can drive the
results what you're doing wrong what
needs to be fixed in what order
to get the results you're looking for
then you're wasting your time so make
sure they do that the next thing you
need to do is have goal alignment what
are the goals that you're trying to
achieve and can they achieve it
sometimes people come to us and they say
hey we're a venture funded startup we
raise 100 million dollars we have no
revenue and we want you to help us get
to 20 million dollars in revenue in the
next six months literally i've had
someone call me and ask for that
can't do it i'm like do you have a sales
team no i'm like but you're in b2b
they're like well we have a sales team
but it's two people well how are you
gonna handle the volume are you selling
things for 10 million dollars like no
we're selling things for a hundred
thousand dollars i'm like well that's
not working out and i'm like why such a
rush and they're like oh well we raised
100 million a while ago and we're
running out of money so we need the
revenue as quick as possible
but that doesn't logically make sense
for you to take them on as a client if
you're an agency because if you can't
produce the results they're going to be
upset at you and churn anyways so make
sure that the goals are aligned both
from the agency end and from you as the
business owner or the marketer or the
cmo or whoever's hiring that agency if
you guys can't align on the goals it's
not going to work out the last thing i
have for you is make sure time zones are
similar with marketers these days they
can be working from anywhere especially
with people going remote just because
someone is from the united states
doesn't mean they live in the united
states they can be working from um one
of those islands in you know thailand
that looks amazing at least from the
pictures but you don't want to do calls
in the middle of the night your time it
would just be super inconvenient for you
so you need to make sure that they're on
your time zone it doesn't matter if they
came from the same city if they're not
on your time zone it's going to be a
pain that's how you find an agency that
produces results now there's a lot of
other things that you may want to look
out for as well but those are the main
you know pitfalls that i see companies
making when they're hiring agencies if
you need help with your marketing check
out my ad agency np digital we analyze
businesses for free and if you like it
pay us if you don't like it you don't
have to pay us
and if you have any questions leave a
comment below i'm always here to help